Adding Git log chapter (#2)
woojiahao/git-guide: 07-advanced-git/07-01-git-log/README.md

# Git Log

Now that you know the basics of Git and have started working on the repository with a few commits, you might ask yourself, "How do we visualize these commits and changes we have made in the repository?"  

That is where this chapter, and the subsequent, `Git Diffs` come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your git respository.  

**TL|DR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at history of commits and how they link up in your respository.  

> At the end of the chapter there will be links to additional resources, as well as more visual GUI tools you can use to look at the log of the respository, but I still suggest reading and understanding how `git log` works as these tools still rely on the basic `git log` to generate their graphs. Having an understanding of this command gives you an intuition for how these tools work in general. Additionally, as the command comes with Git, there is no additional setup required to start using `git log`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of the chapter, there will be links to additional resources and more visual GUI tools you can use to look at the log of the repository. However, I still suggest reading and understanding how `git log` works as these tools still rely on the basic `git log` to generate their graphs. Having an understanding of this command gives you an intuition for how these tools work in general. Additionally, as the command comes with Git, there is no additional setup required to start using `git log`. 
```

Just some minor grammatical changes for a run on sentence

> # Git Log
> 
> Now that you know the basics of Git and have started working on the repository with a few commits, you might ask yourself, "How do we visualize these commits and changes we have made in the repository?"  
> 
> That is where this chapter, and the subsequent, `Git Diffs` come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your git respository.  
> 
> **TL|DR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at history of commits and how they link up in your respository.  
> 
> At the end of the chapter, there will be links to additional resources and more visual GUI tools you can use to look at the log of the repository. However, I still suggest reading and understanding how `git log` works as these tools still rely on the basic `git log` to generate their graphs. Having an understanding of this command gives you an intuition for how these tools work in general. Additionally, as the command comes with Git, there is no additional setup required to start using `git log`. 
> 
> Note:
> This chapter serves to show you and explain the common use cases for the command. For a more detailed explaination, look at the addtional resources or the documentation of the command.

Author: ```suggestion
# Git Log

Now that you know the basics of Git and have started working on the repository with a few commits, you might ask yourself, "How do we visualize these commits and changes we have made in the repository?"  

That is where this chapter, and the subsequent, `Git Diffs` come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your git repository.  

**TL|DR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at the history of commits and how they link up in your repository.  

At the end of the chapter, there will be links to additional resources and more visual GUI tools you can use to look at the log of the repository. However, I still suggest reading and understanding how `git log` works as these tools still rely on the basic `git log` to generate their graphs. Having an understanding of this command gives you an intuition for how these tools work in general. Additionally, as the command comes with Git, there is no additional setup required to start using `git log`. 

Note:
This chapter serves to show you and explain the common use cases for the command. For a more detailed explanation, look at the additional resources or the documentation of the command.
```

Spelling and grammar check

Reviewer: Good catch! These are alright so if you're okay with the changes, feel free to commit them :+1:

> This chapter serves to show you and explain the common use cases for the command. For a more detailed explaination, look at the addtional resources or the documentation of the command.

Author: ```suggestion
# Git Log

Now that you know the basics of Git and have started working on the repository with a few commits, you might ask yourself, "How do we visualize these commits and changes we have made in the repository?"  

That is where this chapter, and the subsequent, `Git Diffs` come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your git repository.  

**TL|DR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at the history of commits and how they link up in your repository.  

At the end of the chapter, there will be links to additional resources and more visual GUI tools you can use to look at the log of the repository. However, I still suggest reading and understanding how `git log` works as these tools still rely on the basic `git log` to generate their graphs. Having an understanding of this command gives you an intuition for how these tools work in general. Additionally, as the command comes with Git, there is no additional setup required to start using `git log`. 

Note:
This chapter serves to show you and explain the common use cases for the command. For a more detailed explanation, look at the additional resources or the documentation of the command.
```

Spelling and grammar check

## Project set up so-far

Let's say the project you are working on is a full-stack web application, with a frontend and backend.  
And you have decided to split the work to frontend and backend work, with respective features branches being worked on.

It may look something like this:  
```

> Github branches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Original repository branches:
```
The guide uses the term `original repository` as a reference to the main repository. Would be easier to use the same terminology

master, start-server (This will be remote branches for you)

Teammate A's branches (On your local machine):

> master, origin/master, backend/start-server, origin/backend/start-server, frontend/landing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
master, origin/master, backend/start-server, origin/backend/start-server, frontend/landing (active)
```
Some indication in this section that we would be focusing on the `frontend/landing` branch would be useful

If we add the flag, `--oneline`, git will shorten each commit to oneline, only preserving the important information.  
Looking at the man page for this command:  
```bash
Documentation:
--oneline
This is a shorthand for "--pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit" used together.
--abbrev-commit
Instead of showing the full 40-byte hexadecimal commit object name, show only a partial prefix. Non default number of digits can be specified with "--abbrev=<n>" (which also modifies diff output, if it is displayed).
```
Thus when running the command.
```bash
git log --oneline
```
![Git log with only oneline](res/small_picture_2.png)

And boom, this was what we wanted at the start. Now we can see that we have added the landing page and also changed the extension of the landing page.  

But there is something weird here...  
We can see that there is a commit tagged with origin/master, along with the commits of our current branch, frontend/landing. As we have established previously in chapter 6, all branches start off somewhere. In this example, the branch frontend/landing branches out from the origin/master branch. As such, git log makes a reference to this.

> Luckily, we don't have to guess as there is a flag which will show us the relationship between these commits.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luckily, we don't have to imagine these relationships between branches and commits as there is a flag that provides us with that visualization.
```

#### graph

> To make git log show the relationships between commits, we just have to add the `--graph` flag. This flag shows a 'graph' of the commits, which for us means the relationship the commits have.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, to display the relationships between branches and commits, we can use the `--graph` flag. This flag shows a 'graph' of the commits, or the relationship between branches and commits.  
```

> Combining this with `--oneline` flag we showed above, makes for a very clean and concise git log.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Combining this with the `--oneline` flag we showed above, makes for a very clean and concise git log.  
```

(Try this out yourself and see what happens!)

```bash
git log --oneline --graph
```
![Git log with oneline and graph](res/small_picture_3.png)

## Looking at the big picture
Now that you know how to look at commits tagged to your branch, you might also want to see how the entire repository might look like.  
Luckily we have a flag to look at the log of the entire repository.  

#### all

> The `--all` flag shows the `git log`; including all the commits from every branch you have in the repository.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--all` flag shows the `git log`, including all the commits from every branch you have in the repository.  
```
Oops, my grammar failed me for a moment there and I thought the second sentence was an independent clause :joy: My bad

We will also be combining this flag with all previous flags to get the best overview of a project. (In our opinion)
```bash
git log --oneline --graph --all
```
![Git log with oneline graph and all](res/big_picture_1.png)

> Now we can see that our frontend landing page feature has already been merged down to our local master branch. We can also see that after `git fetch` (To fetch any changes from GitHub), teammate B had already made more commits on his feature branch and the local `backend/start-server` branch is behind.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can see that our frontend landing page feature (`frontend/landing` branch) has already been merged down to the `master` branch of our local repository. Using `git fetch` (to fetch any changes from GitHub), we can see that teammate B has also made more commits on his feature branch and the local `backend/start-server` branch is behind.  
```
Along with some references to the GitHub image, e.g.
> This graph is similarly reflected in GitHub's visualisation tool. Each line represents a branch with the longest line being the `master` branch...

If there is an article explaining how to read the graph, then you can link that instead of explaining everything again :ok_hand:

Author: Ah I can try and find an article that explains this, although the example above was one that I made up on the sport

Author: I think these 2 StackOverflow questions explained it quite well in text form.
[1st question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39772204/need-help-interpreting-git-log-graph-command)
[2nd question](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5382255/how-to-read-git-log-graph)

Seems like it may be possible to add a text explanation, will try to draft one up.

Reviewer: I believe that both are a good choice for reading recommendations on the topic :+1:

## Wrapping up
To end off, the `git log` command actually has a lot more features and flags which are a bit more nuanced and situational. This chapter demonstrates the most commonly used features and flags which we hope will be usefully to you.  

As mentioned above, below are additional resources:  

> [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)
```

Reviewer: To clear up the previous confusion, I meant making these a list of items instead

> [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)
```

Additional GUI applications that can help you visualise the git log:  
[VSCode extension (Git Graph)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph)
![Git graph looks like](res/git_graph_vscode.png)

> On Github:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GitHub
```

Author: Referenced in new review

Actually there is a feature on github that also allows you to visualise the graph of your respository.  
It is under `Insights` &rarr; `Network` in your respective github respository.  

> ![Github graph](res/github_graph.png)

Author: ```suggestion
## Wrapping up
To end off, the `git log` command actually has a lot more features and flags which are a bit more nuanced and situational. This chapter demonstrates the most commonly used features and flags which we hope will be useful to you.  

As mentioned above, below are additional resources.

### Additional Resources to read
- [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)
- [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)

### GUI applications to help you visualise the git log
- [VSCode extension (Git Graph)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph)
![Git graph looks like](res/git_graph_vscode.png)

#### Github:
Actually there is a feature on GitHub that also allows you to visualise the graph of your repository.  
It is under `Insights` &rarr; `Network` in your respective GitHub repository.  
![Github graph](res/github_graph.png)
```

> ![Github graph](res/github_graph.png)

Author: ```suggestion
## Wrapping up
To end off, the `git log` command actually has a lot more features and flags which are a bit more nuanced and situational. This chapter demonstrates the most commonly used features and flags which we hope will be useful to you.  

As mentioned above, below are additional resources.

### Additional Resources to read
- [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)
- [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)

### GUI applications to help you visualise the git log
- [VSCode extension (Git Graph)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph)
![Git graph looks like](res/git_graph_vscode.png)

#### Github:
Actually there is a feature on GitHub that also allows you to visualise the graph of your repository.  
It is under `Insights` &rarr; `Network` in your respective GitHub repository.  
![Github graph](res/github_graph.png)
```

Compile most of the last few changes into one.
Thought it would be clearer like this

> ## Wrapping up
> To end off, the `git log` command actually has a lot more features and flags which are a bit more nuanced and situational. This chapter demonstrates the most commonly used features and flags which we hope will be usefully to you.  
> 
> As mentioned above, below are additional resources:  
> [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)
> [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)
> 
> Additional GUI applications that can help you visualise the git log:  
> [VSCode extension (Git Graph)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph)
> ![Git graph looks like](res/git_graph_vscode.png)
> 
> On Github:
> Actually there is a feature on github that also allows you to visualise the graph of your respository.  
> It is under `Insights` &rarr; `Network` in your respective github respository.  
> ![Github graph](res/github_graph.png)

Author: ```suggestion
## Wrapping up
To end off, the `git log` command actually has a lot more features and flags which are a bit more nuanced and situational. This chapter demonstrates the most commonly used features and flags which we hope will be useful to you.  

As mentioned above, below are additional resources.

### Additional Resources to read
- [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)
- [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)

### GUI applications to help you visualise the git log
- [VSCode extension (Git Graph)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph)
![Git graph looks like](res/git_graph_vscode.png)

#### Github:
Actually there is a feature on GitHub that also allows you to visualise the graph of your repository.  
It is under `Insights` &rarr; `Network` in your respective GitHub repository.  
![Github graph](res/github_graph.png)
```

Compile most of the last few changes into one.
Thought it would be clearer like this

Reviewer: Yeap, this is definitely a lot neater and will show up when rendered into a PDF in the table of contents :+1: If these are the final changes, feel free to commit them :smile:

# Git Log

Now that you know the basics of Git and have started working on the repository with a few commits, you might ask yourself, "How do we visualize these commits and changes we have made in the repository?"  

This is where this chapter, and the subsequent (`Git Diffs`), come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your Git repository.  

> **TL|DR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at the history of commits and how they link up in your repository.  

Author: ```suggestion
**TLDR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at the history of commits and how they link up in your repository.  
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34702921/87403414-6a548100-c5ef-11ea-9e5b-98299f76b8a0.png)

Seems like github pages does not render this properly, changing it to just be bolded

# Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Git Log](#git-log)
  - [Project set up so-far](#project-set-up-so-far)
    - [Basic git log](#basic-git-log)
    - [Flags](#flags)
      - [oneline](#oneline)
      - [graph](#graph)
      - [all](#all)
  - [Wrapping up](#wrapping-up)
    - [Additional Resources to read](#additional-resources-to-read)
    - [GUI applications to help you visualise the git log](#gui-applications-to-help-you-visualise-the-git-log)

>     - [Github:](#github)

Author: Added table of contents above for easier navigation on the markdown and website.

Reviewer: How is this being generated? I'm concerned because if this is hand generated, if we re-generate the PDF, we have to remove this portion otherwise there will be two table of contents :thinking:

Author: I removed when generating the pdf.  
So there is only 1 table in the pdf  

I generated using a vs ccode extension based on the headings.

Reviewer: I see, I think it's better if it isn't included since it would be easy to forget that you have the table of contents when exporting to the PDF. 

I might be working on getting the entire guide hosted on a proper documentation site generator that will auto-create the table of content that way. It's in the works but definitely something I'll get settled when I can.

Author: Ah alright then, I will remove it.

# Git Log

Now that you know the basics of Git and have started working on the repository with a few commits, you might ask yourself, "How do we visualize these commits and changes we have made in the repository?"  

> That is where this chapter, and the subsequent, `Git Diffs` come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your git repository.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where this chapter, and the subsequent (`Git Diffs`), come in. These commands give you a way to visualize the commits and changes made in your Git repository.  
```

**TL|DR:** The command `git log` and its corresponding optional flags lets you look at the history of commits and how they link up in your repository.  

At the end of the chapter, there will be links to additional resources and more visual GUI tools you can use to look at the log of the repository. However, I still suggest reading and understanding how `git log` works as these tools still rely on the basic `git log` to generate their graphs. Having an understanding of this command gives you an intuition for how these tools work in general. Additionally, as the command comes with Git, there is no additional setup required to start using `git log`. 

> Note:
> This chapter serves to show you and explain the common use cases for the command. For a more detailed explanation, look at the additional resources or the documentation of the command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note*** this chapter serves to show you and explain the common use cases for the command. For a more detailed explanation, look at the additional resources or the documentation of the command.
```

## Project set up so-far

Let's say the project you are working on is a full-stack web application, with a frontend and backend.  
And you have decided to split the work to frontend and backend work, with respective features branches being worked on.

> It may look something like this:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your branches may look like this:
```

```
Original repository branches:
master, backend/start-server (This will be remote branches for you)

Teammate A's branches (On your local machine):
master, origin/master, backend/start-server, origin/backend/start-server, frontend/landing (active)

Teammate B's branches:
backend/start-server (His local branch connected to github)
```

**Note: Assume you are teammate A**

Let's say at this point you have added some code and commits to the project and want to see what commits you had done.  
This could be because, you wanted to see where you left off yesterday or how many features have been completed. (The latter reason is when you are working on a larger feature)

### Basic git log

Well to look at all the commits made on your current branch you can do:
```bash
git log
```
![Basic git log of local branch](res/small_picture_1.png)

> From this screenshot you can see that although we can see all the commits linked to our current branch, there is a bit too much information at once.  
> For example information like when the commit was made or who made it is not really important when trying to look at the bigger picture.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this screenshot you can see that although we can see all the commits linked to our current branch, there is a bit too much information at once.

For example, information like when the commit was made or who made it is not really important when trying to look at the bigger picture.  
```

And boom, this was what we wanted at the start. Now we can see that we have added the landing page and also changed the extension of the landing page.  

But there is something weird here...  
We can see that there is a commit tagged with origin/master, along with the commits of our current branch, frontend/landing. As we have established previously in chapter 6, all branches start off somewhere. In this example, the branch frontend/landing branches out from the origin/master branch. As such, git log makes a reference to this.

Luckily, we don't have to imagine these relationships between branches and commits as there is a flag that provides us with that visualization.

#### graph
As mentioned earlier, to display the relationships between branches and commits, we can use the `--graph` flag. This flag shows a 'graph' of the commits, or the relationship between branches and commits.  
Combining this with the `--oneline` flag we showed above, makes for a very clean and concise git log.  

(Try this out yourself and see what happens!)

```bash
git log --oneline --graph
```
![Git log with oneline and graph](res/small_picture_3.png)

> Now that you know how to look at commits tagged to your branch, you might also want to see how the entire repository might look like.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you know how to look at commits tagged to your branch, you might also want to see all the commits of the entire repository across all branches - both remote and local.  
```

Luckily we have a flag to look at the log of the entire repository.  

#### all
The `--all` flag shows the `git log`, including all the commits from every branch you have in the repository.  
We will also be combining this flag with all previous flags to get the best overview of a project. (In our opinion)
```bash
git log --oneline --graph --all
```
![Git log with oneline graph and all](res/big_picture_1.png)

Now we can see that our frontend landing page feature (`frontend/landing` branch) has already been merged down to the `master` branch of our local repository. Using `git fetch` (to fetch any changes from GitHub), we can see that teammate B has also made more commits on his feature branch and the local `backend/start-server` branch is behind.  

> For a better explaination of how to read the graph from `--graph` flag, you can refer to these stackoverflow answers:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed explanation on how to read the graph, you can refer to these Stack Overflow answers:  
```

Author: ```suggestion
For a more detailed explanation on how to read the graph, you can refer to these Stack Overflow answers:  
```

- [Need help interpreting git log --graph command](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39772204/need-help-interpreting-git-log-graph-command)

> - [How to read git log graph](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5382255/how-to-read-git-log-graph)

Author: Added the additional reading for understanding the graph from git log

Reviewer: Sounds good :+1: Apart from the minor changes to the phrasing above, these resources are good :smile:

## Wrapping up
To end off, the `git log` command actually has a lot more features and flags which are a bit more nuanced and situational. This chapter demonstrates the most commonly used features and flags which we hope will be useful to you.  

As mentioned above, below are additional resources.

> ### Additional Resources to read

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Additional resources
```

- [More features of git log](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-log)
- [git log documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-log)

> ### GUI applications to help you visualise the git log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GUI applications to visualise `git log`
```

- [VSCode extension (Git Graph)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mhutchie.git-graph)

![Git graph looks like](res/git_graph_vscode.png)

> ### Github:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Github
```
The `:` shows up in the table of contents
